[Automation blogs] How to use playwright in cucumber (#4)
manabie-com/manabie-com.github.io: content/posts/how-to-use-playwright-in-cucumberjs/index.md

+++
date = ""
author = "nploi"
description = "How to use Playwright in cucumberjs"
title = "How to use Playwright in cucumberjs"

> categories = ["e2e test"]

Reviewer: Can we get same categories with thiiss post https://github.com/manabie-com/manabie-com.github.io/blob/main/content/posts/why-we-use-cucumber-for-end-to-end-testing/index.md

> tags = ["k8s", "playwright", "cucumberjs"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags = ["e2e", "playwright", "cucumberjs"]
```

slug = "how-to-use-playwright-in-cucumberjs"
+++

> 

Reviewer 2: In our previous blog article [HERE](https://blog.manabie.io/2021/12/why-we-use-cucumber-for-end-to-end-testing/), we explained why we're using Cucumber for E2E test at Manabie, and provided a brief understanding about Cucumber.

This time, let's dive a little bit deeper!

> This tutorial helps you run automate your test using Playwright in Cucumber.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial helps you run `web` automation tests by using Playwright in Cucumber.
```

> This tutorial helps you run `web` automation tests by using Playwright in Cucumber.

Reviewer 2: This tutorial helps you run `web` automation tests, using Playwright in Cucumber.

> Before begin, we will give a brief introduction to Cucumber and Playwright.

Reviewer 2: Before we start, let's cover a brief introduction to Cucumber again, and afterward, about Playwright.

                    headless: false,
                });
                const context = await browser.newContext();
                this.page = await context.newPage();
                await this.page.goto(url);
            }
        }

        setWorldConstructor(CustomWorld);
        ```

      - `features/support/steps.js`

        ```javascript
        const { Given, When, Then } = require("@cucumber/cucumber");

        Given("Bob opens Manabie website", { timeout: 60 * 1000 }, async function () {
            await this.openUrl('http://manabie.com/');
        });

        When("Bob goes to Careers section", async function () {
            await this.page.click('text=Careers');
        });

        Then("Bob sees all job openings at Manabie", async function () {
            await this.page.click('text=View Openings');
            await this.page.waitForSelector('text=Our Openings');
        });
        ```

    - Run:

        ```bash
        ./node_modules/.bin/cucumber-js --exit
        ```

    - After run:

        ```bash
        1 scenario (1 passed)
        3 steps (3 passed)
        0m03.739s (executing steps: 0m03.729s)
        ```

### Conclusion

> Cucumber and Playwright is great framework. I hope this article will be of some use to you. [Here is source code](/content/posts/how-to-use-playwright-in-cucumberjs/example), thank you.

Reviewer 2: Cucumber and Playwright are great frameworks. I hope this article will be of some use to you. [Here is source code](/content/posts/how-to-use-playwright-in-cucumberjs/example), thank you.

Curious for more about how we're tackling testing problems at Manabie? Join us as an Engineer **[HERE](https://manabie.breezy.hr/)**, or follow our blog for future articles.
